{The Dependency Problem}{Village}
It feels like your village has been in a state of constant bickering and dispute for an eternity. Only Gary the Oblivious seems unaffected from the turmoil. As voices prattle on, your mind drifts to memories of falling asleep as a child. You remember how the soothingness of the waves crashing on the beach competed with the terror of the distant inhuman growls of the Island Monsters. Your memory makes a violent shift to a few months ago when one of the beasts crossed the channel. Its eyes were pits of cold hatred. Mercy did not swerve the path of its destruction. Since then, the village has hotly debated paying mages to erect a bridge, allowing the royal army to cross the waters. Do we put our lives indebt to the Corrupt King, or risk them to the monsters?

The village finally decides to take a vote on whether to build the bridge. Of the 99 villagers, 49 raise their hand to build the bridge. Then Gary the Oblivious slowly raises his hand, confusion spread across his face. The decision passes. You feel relief as the dispute is finally over. Awhile later the mages have completed their work and the officers of the royal army are making preparations. First though, the officers decide to follow procedure and ask who was originally opposed to inviting the army. Forty-nine hands shoot into the air. And then it happens: Gary raises his hand, bringing the no vote to the majority. Before anyone can react, the officers decide the vote has failed and angrily teleport away with the mages.

The monsters cross the magic bridge and everyone is slaughtered. Except Gary. Dammit, Gary!

This vote is illustrated in the simulation below. As the next page will explain, Gary has exposed a fundamental flaw of the voting system: an inability to deal with dependencies.

{The Core of the Issue}{Preference}
The core of this problem is that the outcome of one decision effects how preferable the outcome of another decision is. The voting method contained no way for the voter to express that fact. In the vote the effects of the decision were so heavily dependent on each other's results that disregarding that fact made it all feel absurd and completely out of touch with what the voters wanted.

With our omniscient view there is a way for us to calculate the preferability of all the options, as seen below. Now, how can we find a voting system to match that?

{Solutions}{CombinedVote}
Solving this problem is not simple. For example, you might be tempted to have voters pick which of the combined options they most prefer. For example, you might tell voters "Pick one of these four options: kill Gary and eat a bird, kill Gary and don't eat a bird, don't kill Gary and don't eat a bird, or don't kill Gary and eat a bird." The only reason anyone would not kill Gary is if they had some crazy obsession with not killing, so all the "don't kill Gary" types are united in not eating a bird either. However, the kill Gary faction is divided between bird eater and non bird eater. You can see the result in the simulation below. The problem here is that this new voting system makes people express one option as totally preferable and all others as completely unacceptable.

And yes, there are more complicated voting systems that can find the best combination in this particular scenario. However, even these systems run in to the issue that, for every decision you add to a ballot, the amount of possible combinations doubles. With just 10 questions on a ballot, there are 1024 combinations of responses. Resolving this issue is hard enough that cheating is starting to feel fairly enticing. But what is there to exploit?

{The Problem in Legislatures}{Legislature}
The parliament of Dessertia is in turmoil. Though the Strawberry faction holds the most seats, they don't have the majority. The Chocolate and Mint factions refuse to form a coalition with each other. It is a time of crisis and nothing is getting done when action is most needed. The once loyal citizens are about ready to desert the land!

How did this come about? In the Dessertian parliament, citizens vote for their local representative and the winner gets a seat in the parliament. These local elections have no dependency on the results of any other localities even though many voters would be happy to pick a somewhat less preferable local candidate in exchange for a functioning government. And voting for which parliamentary make up they want won't work either, because, despite there being only nine seats, there are almost twenty thousand ways to distribute the seats among just the three major parties.

In desperation, they stumble across a potential solution. A reverse parliament! People will vote directly for the role of prime minister, and each candidate for the job will have their own list of ministers to represent each locality. You can try your hand at being a candidate below: pick the results (the small boxes in the "Your Outcome" column) that give the most preferable outcome to get as many votes as you can.

That specific idea may or may not have significant problems for other reasons. The point is that if there is some means of restricting the ballot options to the most preferable choices, it allows voters to express their genuine preference.

In any case, we can see that this seems straightforward at first is actually a complicated beast, with so many fascinating ideas to consider. I invite you to explore and discuss this, and thank you for joining along.



